on this edition of state hominy we are
making a Maine classic bean hole baked
beans it's a traditional way to cut
baked beans in which you actually dig a
hole in the ground bury a pot of baked
beans amid some hot coals and fire and
cook them overnight what we've done is
we have dug a bean hole basically about
three foot through the middle and lined
it with rocks built the fire inside when
the coals get hot we're going to bury a
pot of beans in the bean hole cover it
up and cook it overnight to make bean
hole baked beans so while we're waiting
for the while we're waiting for the fire
in the bean hole to cook talk about the
bean recipe itself the bean recipe
itself is my grandmother's recipe it
calls for two pounds of beans today we
are using Jacob's cattle beans which are
a bean that my grandfather grew in his
garden
it calls for a half a pound of butter
which I substitute for a pound of salt
pork because everybody fights goes don't
work also have one and a quarter cup of
molasses three tablespoons of minced
onion two tablespoons of ground mustard
and then boiling hot water to cover and
at this point we are just getting the
fire going and what we're looking for is
a nice bed of coals to form you don't
want to put the beans in when the fire
is actually blazing but you want the
fire died down so there's a nice bed of
coals and what you're going to do is
you're going to shovel out some of the
coals lay the bean pot in and then put
those coals that you took out back on
top and cover everything up in the bean
hole and let it cook overnight it's the
following morning we put the beans in
the bean hole you saw the fire that we
had going we let it burn down to coals
the reason that we didn't videotape the
putting them in though we were so
concerned and worried that we wouldn't
have gotten it right that we didn't
bother filming it but we ended up
putting the bean pot in the hole with
the hot bed of coals shoveled some coals
around
on top to make a nice little snug coal
oven in the bean hole covered him with
dirt and let him go overnight we came
down here this morning it took the beans
out of the hole and here's how they came
out I think they look done don't you
but the true test is the spoon with the
taste a lot of moisture there you can
absorb a lot of moisture once they're
done
right crunchy mm-hmm
they're pretty good I bet you they would
absorb now
there you go
genuine main beam whole beans as always
we'll post the recipe online here as
well your comments are always welcome
and don't forget to shoot us a note stay
home and eat calm